it's just a phenomenal place is
beautiful and is filled with clothes
about the ancient life these clues are
buried deep in the rock and must be
painstakingly excavated the team began
work on this site a year ago Lewis knows
from the layer of rock they're digging
that this dinosaur died a hundred and
fifty million years ago but he doesn't
know what species it is and it's
potentially a dinosaur that has never
been seen before we are actually
collecting in an area that has not been
sampled and no one has really worked
here before the possibility of having a
new species is very very exciting a
fossil dig is like a murder scene every
piece of evidence about what happened
150 million years ago has to be salvaged
the layout of the entire site will be
mapped and the precise location of every
bone fragment recorded to help piece
together the remains the more complete
the skeleton the easier it will be to
identify and the greater than likelihood
that this dinosaur will be turned into
an exhibit we have high limbs we have
four limbs we have a lot of the tail we
have ribs
we have many parts of the skeleton and
now we're starting to uncover the neck I
would anticipate that we're gonna have
to keep opening the query to uncover
many other neck vertebra and hopefully
the skull working at what species this
is going to be possible until the bones
are back in LA but fossils are fragile
and moving them is a risky business
ready one two three
well it has to be 400 pounds at least
right if no more the team begin the
precarious task of shifting a femur the
single heaviest bone in the dinosaurs
body try to keep in a align because if
we go on this side it's just going to be
really difficult Doug won't you go that
way because the fossil is so delicate
it's been cased in plaster and
reinforced with steel bars when you're
handling bones that are heavy and
fragile that is definitely not an easy
process if you know you don't have the
right people the bones can break it will
take many more months of work to
excavate the entire skeleton and get it
back to LA for analysis